1. What are your names, lab-group, and civic registration numbers?
    
    Lab group 1
        Pär Svedberg    8211127652
        Oskar Åkergren  [CIVIC NUMBER]

2. What is the fingerprint of your key?
    
    [KEY FPR]

3. What mail client did you use for the lab?
    
    Mozilla Thunderbird

4. Will you use gpg in the future? Please specify your reasons.

    [REASONS]

5. What is the purpose of signing in terms of the "CIA" (Confidentiality, Integrity,
Availability)? Motivate your answer. Explain how signing works in PGP? Why is a
hash function used?

    (A) Integrity. A digital signature provides authenticity to a message,
        to assure the recipient that the message is not tampered with and
        originated from the right person.

    (B) The steps of signing in PGP:

        (1) In PGP, to sign a message the sending person uses a one-way hashing
            function on the plaintext message to generate output of a
            predetermined length, called a message digest.
        (2) This digest is then used together with the senders private key to
            produce the signature. By doing this, the digest's integrity is
            protected by the sender's signature, and it assures that it has not
            been tampered with.
        (3) The message and signature are then sent, and the recipient can
            verify the message's digest.
        (4) The recipient verifies the message's integrity by using PGP to
            calculate a digest of the received message and compares it to the
            signed digest provided by the sender. The integrity of the signed
            digest is verified by decrypting it using the sender's public key.

    (C) By using encryption to digitally sign messages, there would be
        significant overhead in data usage, at least twice as much as
        the original, and this is countered by using the fixed-length hashing
        function. The hashing function used is strong in the sense that if
        the data is manipulated, the output of the hash is different.

6. What is the purpose of encryption in terms of the "CIA"? Motivate your answer.
Explain how encryption and decryption works in PGP? Make sure that your answer
includes how PGP combines the best features of both conventional and public key
cryptography.

    Confidentiality.

7. In the lab you validated the keys by asking the owners verbally for the fingerprint.
Explain how the trust system (web of trust) in GnuPG works and how you validate
a key belonging to a person you do not know personally. Your answer must
distinguish between (owner) trust and (key) validity (sometimes called validity
trust). You should also include the conditions for when you start to consider keys
from foreigners valid.

    If you as a user trust that someone's public key is valid, you can sign it
    in GPG. When it is a key of someone you know, the validation of the key's
    fingerprint is trivial. The problem is when you need to validate the keys
    of people you do not know. To be able to do that, you can make use of that
    people in your keyring may have signed someone else's key. GPG lets you
    assign a trust a value on anyone in your key ring, and depending on what
    values you have assigned to different people's keys, GPG can decide if a
    keys from strangers are valid.

    By default, GPG consider keys valid if it has:
        - your own signature
        - the signature of one person you have assigned "fully trusted"
        - the signatures of three people you have assigned "marginally trusted"
        
    Furthermore, the number of steps leading from the key to be validated to
    your own, need to be at most five. Again, the number of steps and how many
    signatures are needed is the default setting, and it can be changed if need
    be.


8. Consider the example shown in the Figure 3 below. Assume you have (at least)
five keys on your key ring. You have personally signed the keys of Alice, Blake and
Chloe. They, in turn, have signed the key of Dharma. Finally, Dharma has signed
the key of Elena. From the figure, you can see the current owner trust as well as
the key validity (calculated trust value). To be succinct, we have marked these
entries as -/-, where the left entry stands for owner trust and the right entry key
validity.

            m/f
      _---> Alice -\
     /              \
    /       m/f      \> -/m             -/-
You ------> Blake ----> Dharma  --->    Elena
    \                 ->
     \      q/f      /
      ----> Chloe  -/

Figure 3: Example of a web of trust. 'A -> B' indicates that A has signed B's key.

For example, consider Alice. As you have personally signed her key, it is fully
trusted (i.e. you know that the person Alice owns this key). Furthermore, you
also know that Alice is quite messy and has a history of signing other people's
keys without the proper validation. For that reason, you have assigned the owner
trust of Alice to marginal. The same goes for Blake. However, Chloe is a new
acquaintance and you do not know whether she is careful when validating keys.
Hence, you put "Don't know" (q) for owner trust of Chloe. Depending on your
version of GPG, this may be listed as trust: undefined, validity: full. You have not
entered any owner trust for either Dharma or Elena, hence the - in the figure (may
be marked as unknown in gpg).

    (a) You know Dharma, and you now enter that you trust her fully. If you list
    the key for Dharma, it would now show: f/m (trust: full, validity: marginal).
    What would be listed for Elena? Answer using the form: Elena trust: x,
    validity: x

    (b) Time passes, and you realize that Chloe is actually somewhat trustworthy.
    For that reason, you change the owner trust of Chloe to marginal (Chloe:
    m/f). What would now be listed for Elena? We assume the changes done in
    (a) are still in effect.

Hint 1: If you are uncertain of the answer, you can download the file from the
Documents directory in PingPong (lab2.keys). Import all the keys in this file, sign
Alice, Blake, Chloe and set the proper owner trust levels. Then you can just print
the values for Elena.

Hint 2: In the offprint-collection for the course, there are two papers describing
cryptography: An introduction to cryptography and The GNU Privacy Handbook.

The two papers give different information regarding the number of marginally
trusted keys that need to sign a key to make it valid. For Q8, lab2 you should use
the information provided in The GNU privacy handbook.

9. What is your public key (in ASCII-format)? Use the menu option Attach My
Public Key in Enigmail/OpenPGP to include your key with the email.
You can also manually insert the key into the email. First, you need to export
a fresh copy of the key (with the armor option) to a file. Second, include the
contents of this file into the email. Make sure that there is a blank line between
your answers above and the start of the preamble of the key block:
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----

5.6.4 Some additional hints for the Lab 2 report
Remember that your answer MUST be in your own words. You cannot copy text from
public sources, but you need to write the report in your own words and cite the public
sources you use to collect information.

Q5: Note that this question has 3(!) parts:
(A) CIA: You should give your answer + a motivation.
(B) How does signing work in PGP: Give a step-by-step list (1) ... (2) ... (3)... Also
explain how the signature is checked by the recipient.
(C) Why is a hash used: explain why a hash is used. For (C): Note that the hash is
not used to ensure that the data has not been tampered with. The hash algorithms are
public, so anyone can create a hash of a text. From your answer in (B), you should have
one separate step for the hash (and this is different from the step describing the method
that ensures that nobody can tamper with the message content). Thus, for (C) you need
to specify WHY hashing is one step of your answer in (B).

Q6: Note that this quest has 3(!) parts:
(A) CIA: You should give your answer + a motivation.
(B) Explain the steps of encryption / decryption: Give a step-by-step list, (1) ... (2) ...
(3) ... Ensure that you also explain the decryption process and what key is used for each
step.
(C) From your answer in (B), you should realize HOW PGP combines the best features
of both conventional and public key cryptos. List the reason the conventional crypto is
used, and then list the reason the public key crypto is used.
